Add Remix wizard instructions (#7768)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/guides/remix/manual-setup.mdx

---
title: Manual Setup
sidebar_order: 1
description: "Learn how to set up the SDK manually."
---

If you can't (or prefer not to) run the [automatic setup](/platforms/javascript/guides/remix/#install), you can follow the instructions below to configure your application.

> ## Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation

Get started by installing the below:
```

Reviewer 2: l: Would just suggest a slight change here:
```suggestion
## Installation

Get started by installing the Sentry Remix SDK:
```

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install --save @sentry/remix
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/remix
```

```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
pnpm add @sentry/remix
```

## Configuration

To use this SDK, initialize Sentry in your Remix entry points for both the client and server.

> Create two files in the root directory of your project, `entry.client.tsx` and `entry.server.tsx` (if they don't exist yet). In these files, add your initialization code for the client-side SDK and server-side SDK, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create two files in the root directory of your project, `entry.client.tsx` and `entry.server.tsx` (if they don't already exist). Add your initialization code in these files for the client-side and server-side SDK, respectively.
```

To catch React component errors (in Remix v1) and routing transactions, wrap your Remix root with `withSentry`.

<Note>

If you use the Remix `v2_errorBoundary` future flag, you must also configure a [v2 ErrorBoundary](#v2-errorboundary).

</Note>

```typescript {filename: root.tsx}
import {
  Links,
  LiveReload,
  Meta,
  Outlet,
  Scripts,
  ScrollRestoration,
} from "@remix-run/react";

import { withSentry } from "@sentry/remix";

function App() {
  return (
    <html>
      <head>
        <Meta />
        <Links />
      </head>
      <body>
        <Outlet />
        <ScrollRestoration />
        <Scripts />
        <LiveReload />
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}

export default withSentry(App);
```

You can disable or configure `ErrorBoundary` using a second parameter to `withSentry`.

```typescript
withSentry(App, {
  wrapWithErrorBoundary: false,
});

// or

withSentry(App, {
  errorBoundaryOptions: {
    fallback: <p>An error has occurred</p>,
  },
});
```

> ## Custom Express Server

Reviewer 2: l: I'd prefer this section and the v2 support section to switch places unless there's a concrete reason to have custom express server instructions come first(?) My thinking is that showing that we support v2 (future flags) is more important than custom servers.

> If you use a custom Express server in your Remix application, you should wrap your [`createRequestHandler` function](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/other-api/adapter#createrequesthandler) manually with `wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler`. This is not required if you use the built-in Remix App Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a custom Express server in your Remix application, you should wrap your [`createRequestHandler` function](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/other-api/adapter#createrequesthandler) manually with `wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler`. This isn't necessary if you're using the built-in Remix App Server.
```

<Note>

`wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler` is available starting with version 7.11.0.

</Note>

```typescript {filename: server/index.ts}
import { wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler } from "@sentry/remix";
import { createRequestHandler } from "@remix-run/express";

// ...

const createSentryRequestHandler =
  wrapExpressCreateRequestHandler(createRequestHandler);

// Use createSentryRequestHandler like you would with createRequestHandler
app.all("*", createSentryRequestHandler(/* ... */));
```

> ## Remix v2 features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remix v2 Features
```

_Available from SDK version 7.59.0_

[Remix v2](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/pages/v2) will introduce new features that require additional configuration to work with Sentry. These features are also available from version [1.17.0](https://github.com/remix-run/remix/releases/tag/remix%401.17.0) with [future flags](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/pages/api-development-strategy#current-future-flags).

### v2 ErrorBoundary

> To capture errors from [v2 ErrorBoundary](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/route/error-boundary-v2), you should define your own `ErrorBoundary` in `root.tsx` and use `Sentry.captureRemixErrorBoundaryError` inside of it. You can also create route-specific error capturing behaviour by defining `ErrorBoundary` in your route components. The `ErrorBoundary` you define in `root.tsx` will be used as a fallback for all routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To capture errors from [v2 ErrorBoundary](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/route/error-boundary-v2), you should define your own `ErrorBoundary` in `root.tsx` and use `Sentry.captureRemixErrorBoundaryError` inside of it. You can also create route-specific error capturing behavior by defining `ErrorBoundary` in your route components. The `ErrorBoundary` you define in `root.tsx` will be used as a fallback for all routes.
```

```typescript {filename: root.tsx}
import { captureRemixErrorBoundaryError } from "@sentry/remix";

export const ErrorBoundary: V2_ErrorBoundaryComponent = () => {
  const error = useRouteError();

  captureRemixErrorBoundaryError(error);

  return <div> ... </div>;
};
```

## v2 Server-side Errors

> When using `v2_errorBoundary` future flag, Sentry can't capture your server-side errors automatically. Instead, define a [`handleError`](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/file-conventions/entry.server#handleerror) function in your server entry point. Then, you should use `Sentry.captureRemixServerError` to capture errors in your server-side code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry won't be able to capture your server-side errors automatically if you're using the`v2_errorBoundary` future flag. To work around this, define a [`handleError`](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/file-conventions/entry.server#handleerror) function in your server entry point. Then use `Sentry.captureRemixServerError` to capture errors in your server-side code.
```

```typescript {filename: entry.server.tsx}
export function handleError(
  error: unknown,
  { request }: DataFunctionArgs
): void {
  if (error instanceof Error) {
    Sentry.captureRemixServerException(error, "remix.server", request);
  } else {
    // Optionally capture non-Error objects
    Sentry.captureException(error);
  }
}
```

> Once you've done this set up, the SDK will automatically capture unhandled errors and promise rejections, and monitor performance in the client. You can also [manually capture errors](/platforms/javascript/guides/remix/usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've completed this setup, the SDK will automatically capture unhandled errors and promise rejections, and monitor performance in the client. You can also [manually capture errors](/platforms/javascript/guides/remix/usage).
```

<Note>

> You can refer to [Remix Docs](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/guides/envvars#browser-environment-variables) to learn how to use your Sentry DSN from environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to [Remix Docs](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/guides/envvars#browser-environment-variables) to learn how to use your Sentry DSN with environment variables.
```

    new Sentry.BrowserTracing({
      routingInstrumentation: Sentry.remixRouterInstrumentation(
        useEffect,
        useLocation,
        useMatches
      ),
    }),
    // Replay is only available in the client
    new Sentry.Replay(),
  ],

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,

  // Set `tracePropagationTargets` to control for which URLs distributed tracing should be enabled
  tracePropagationTargets: ["localhost", /^https:\/\/yourserver\.io\/api/],

  // Capture Replay for 10% of all sessions,
  // plus for 100% of sessions with an error
  replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1,
  replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

```typescript {tabTitle:Server} {filename: entry.server.tsx}
import { useLocation, useMatches } from "@remix-run/react";
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/remix";
import { useEffect } from "react";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",

  // Set tracesSampleRate to 1.0 to capture 100%
  // of transactions for performance monitoring.
  // We recommend adjusting this value in production
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});
```

> Initialize Sentry in your entry point for the server to capture exceptions and get performance metrics for your [`action`](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#action) and [`loader`](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#loader) functions. You can also initialize Sentry's database integrations, such as <Link to="/platforms/node/performance/database/opt-in/#prisma-orm-integration">Prisma</Link>, to get spans for your database calls.

Reviewer 3: Looks like these links have moved

```suggestion
Initialize Sentry in your entry point for the server to capture exceptions and get performance metrics for your [`action`](https://remix.run/docs/en/1.19.3/route/action) and [`loader`](https://remix.run/docs/en/1.19.3/route/loader) functions. You can also initialize Sentry's database integrations, such as <Link to="/platforms/node/performance/database/opt-in/#prisma-orm-integration">Prisma</Link>, to get spans for your database calls.
```

> Initialize Sentry in your entry point for the server to capture exceptions and get performance metrics for your [`action`](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#action) and [`loader`](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/conventions#loader) functions. You can also initialize Sentry's database integrations, such as <Link to="/platforms/node/performance/database/opt-in/#prisma-orm-integration">Prisma</Link>, to get spans for your database calls.

Author: @shanamatthews - v2.0.0 is published so we can use `main` here instead. 

```suggestion
Initialize Sentry in your entry point for the server to capture exceptions and get performance metrics for your [`action`](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/route/action) and [`loader`](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/route/loader) functions. You can also initialize Sentry's database integrations, such as <Link to="/platforms/node/performance/database/opt-in/#prisma-orm-integration">Prisma</Link>, to get spans for your database calls.
```
